---
layout: single
title: Useful Books about Raising Kids
tags:
- Family
---


### How to Raise an Adult: Break Free of the Overparenting Trap and Prepare Your Kid for Success

- [URL](https://www.amazon.com/How-Raise-Adult-Overparenting-Prepare/dp/1250093635/ref=tmm_pap_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&qid=1497746888&sr=1-1)

- Mentoring has a close connection to raising up children. This  book which gave me  many insights about mentoring.


1. When should stop overparenting:
- "let your kids play, let them make the rules, resolve the conflicts, best is if they do it spontaneously on their own (rather than scheduled by parents)"
- help kids develop life skills
- let kids roam free out of your supervision
- teach kids critical thinking / think for themselves
- prepare kids for hard work, resilience
- help kids choose school best for them, not necessarily the Best school.
- "Don't do for your kid what your kid can already do or can almost do." 
- "choose toys that allow free play (the more multipurpose/generic the better: blocks and LEGO rather than action figures)"
- give distance between you and kids
- let kids take appropriate risks and deal with consequences



2. Life skills:(longer list in book)
```
- by 3 years, kid should:
- by 5 years, kid should
- by 7 years, kid can
- by 9 years, kid should:
- by 13 years, kid should:
- by 18, kid should:
```

3. teach kids to think for themselves:
- elementary: ask  "why" questions, other reasons/possibilities?
- middle: ask what they enjoyed about school  (and why), what not and why? 
- high: what did you enjoy? why? what makes that interesting ?
- discuss controversial topic with kids, 
- help them speak up for themselves with strangers/authority. 

4. prepare for hard work / work ethic:
- start chores at 3 years old / toddlers: help with chores: dusting, laundry help / elementary: bring in groceries, clean up spills / middle schoolers: wash car, shovel snow, rake leaves, pick up stuff from the store / high schoolder:  clean kitchen, help organize house,
- expect kids' help, straightforward instructions, give thanks and feedback, make it routine

5. developing purpose:
- let long-term goals and purpose become motivator (not parent, not grades, not getting into college)
- let kids make choices, take risks and make mistakes
- help kids learn from experience, combat perfectionism
- notice good and comment on it
- authentic feedback and criticism (criticize action, don't place blame)
- be good model yourself

6. some things child should experience by 18 (longer list in book)

7. look at schools other than "the top"
- be realistic about the odds
- princeton review (student opinion)
- The Alumni Factor (which small colleges allow healthy development, good financial prospects as grads)
- let the kid decide

8. shifts in childhood in the past 20-30 years:
- media spread fear of abduction/injury/death
- falling behind competition (e.g. from other countries)
- self-esteem movement (e.g. everyone gets a trophy for existing)
- emergence of playdates (vs child-initiated, spontaneous free play)

9. Symptoms of the social shifts on college kids, graduate students, even employed adults:
- increasingly dependent on parents to advocate , help them make decisions, deal with uncertainty, provide motivation and path
- without purpose
- unable to cope with and overcome adversity of any kind
- feel entitled to advancement, promotion, success without really trying 
- lacking basic life skills (e.g. out of bed in time) 
- mentally weak: college students stressed out, feel no control, can't handle failure (or success), unable to deviate from parents' chosen path
- parents stressed out too!

10. some relevant "bad" going-on phenomena: 
- fear of abduction 
- allowing children independence, autonomy, going out alone is now criminalized at times
- trying to create opportunities, give advantage to kids
- some "parents" doing all the life skills work for kids, fixing their problems, dealing with other adults on behalf of adult children
- parents doing homework
- "college admissions is broken"? / estimated 1/4 of college applicants have used a private tutor or college consultant
- many parents "game" ADHD diagnosis to get an unfair advantage for a non-affected student / ADHD recreational drug use off prescription (particularly in East Coast and boarding schools)



### Untangled: Guiding Teenage Girls Through the Seven Transitions into Adulthood

- [URL](https://www.amazon.com/Untangled-Guiding-Teenage-Transitions-Adulthood/dp/0553393057)


### Wonder:

- [URL](https://smile.amazon.com/dp/B0051ANPZQ/ref=smi_www_rco2_go_smi_g2609328962?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1&ie=UTF8)
- A wonderful children book. Touching, moving and encouraging.

### The-Namesake
- [URL](https://www.amazon.com/Namesake-Novel-Jhumpa-Lahiri/dp/0618485228/ref=tmm_pap_swatch_0?_encoding=UTF8&qid=1497747102&sr=1-1)
- Touching, powerful, and a must-read for the first-generation immigrant Family

### Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother

- [URL](https://www.amazon.com/Battle-Hymn-Tiger-Mother-Chua/dp/0143120581)
- Funny, powerful and an eye opener.


### Emotional-Intelligence

- [URL](https://www.audible.com/pd/Emotional-Intelligence-Part-1-Audiobook/B002VA9U0S)


