---
layout: post
title: Lean In- Women, Work, and the Will to Lead
tags:
- Career-guides
- My-Favorite
- Self-Develop
---


- [URL](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B009LMTDL0/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1)
- Inspiring, a life-changing book

- The author's comments: we can’t just mandate and legislate our way to gender equality. We have to substantially change our attitudes and behavior – both men and women!

1. Treat your career like a jungle gym.
- there are so many ways to get to your destination!
- plan both for the short and long term. 
- long-term dream can help you decide what kind of work  to take on, even if it’s not entirely clear 
- short-term (e.g., 18-month) goals, make you have a solid sense of direction, without too much pressure.


2. Learn to strike a balance between ambition and appeal.
- "women to cultivate the right public image to advance their career is like walking on a tightrope". 
- "can’t be too ambitious, because others will just perceive you as rude, which often happens when women are assertive and go for what they want."
- " If too nice though, people will not take you seriously,"
-  Be nice and accommodating, but draw clear lines when you notice others approach them. 
- "also helps to generalize and argue on behalf of a group, rather than yourself, as well as quoting other leaders and industry statistics and facts."

3. Before you become a mother, lean into your career as much as you can.
- "The one thing you should avoid at all costs is giving up before you have to, just because society tells you too."
- "go full throttle for as long as you can, take opportunities, give it a shot ..."

4. Some concerning numbers / good tips from the book, e.g. 
- percentage of women works full-time 20 years after graduating college
- self-doubting syndrome  damages women’s confidence more than men’s
- to get a mentor instead of asking for one
- encourage dad’s doing their job in the house
- Why guilt management is more important for women than time management
