---
layout: single
title: Triggers-Creating Behavior That Lasts--Becoming the Person You Want to Be
tags:
- Critical-Thinking
- Self-Develop
---


- [URL](https://www.amazon.com/Triggers-Creating-Behavior-Lasts-Becoming-Person/dp/0804141231)

0. Our behaviors are usually the result of unappreciated triggers in our environment—the people and situations that lure us. These triggers are constant and relentless and omnipresent. But we have a choice in how we respond.

1. Good things happen when we ask ourselves. Discovering what really matters is a gift, not a burden.

2. When we have structure, we don’t have to make as many choices; we just follow the plan. And we’re not being depleted as quickly.

3. People are visionary Planners but blurry-eyed Doers. Awareness and engagement: Trigger - Impulse -- Awareness -- Choice -- Behavior  Bridging the gap between the visionary Planner and the short-sighted Doer in us.
- e.g., Meeting Questions: Where are we going? Where are you going? What is going well? Where can we improve? How can I help you? How can you help me?

4. Forecasting the Environment: Anticipation. Avoid. Adjustments.

5. Daily Questions – reinforce our commitment. They ignite our motivation where we need it, not where we don’t. They highlight the difference between self-discipline and self-control. They shrink our goals into manageable increments.

* a simple “magic bullet” solution in the form of daily self-monitoring, hinging around what he calls “active” questions.
* These are questions that measure our effort, not our results.
* the six “engaging questions” that can help us take responsibility for our efforts to improve

- Did I do my best to set clear goals today?
- Did I do my best to make progress toward my goals today?
- Did I do my best to find meaning today?
- Did I do my best to be happy today?
- Did I do my best to build positive relationships today?
- Did I do my best to be fully engaged today?
